Our third payment protection pattern is re-entrancy guard.
Re-entrancy guarding prevents a contract function from calling
itself multiple times in a single transaction. How would that occur?
Well, as with other attacks that you've seen,
this is just another variant of a re-entrancy attack,
where an attacker writes code that has a contract call
your contract and essentially put it into an infinite loop causing funds to be drained.
Re-entrancy guarding is also best implemented as
a function modifier for greater reusability.
The pattern is as follows;
you first create a variable that's your guard variable.
Let's call that counter.
In your modifier, you increment the counter variable.
In other words, every time the modifier is reference the counter gets incremented.
Next, you instantiate a local variable inside
a modifier that has the same value as the counter.
Immediately after that, you use
the underscore placeholder which as you may already know in Solidity,
is where the function code that is being used by the modifier is actually placed.
So the pattern so far is that you have created the guard variable,
you've incremented it, you've set a local variable.
Now your function code gets called,
and after the function code is called,
you then check with
a require statement that the local variable has the same value as counter.
Now, this is a little tricky.
So let's walk through this and think about it from the stack perspective.
Imagine a scenario where your contract function is being
called by an external contract repeatedly.
This pattern because of that very last require that occurs after the call function,
ensures that even if that was situation were to occur,
the last require would fail because the local variable would
have the initial state when the modifier was set the first time.
So let's look at the code for this in an exercise and it should become a little clearer.